# 🐋 Docker + *'ADCH++*'

With this *Dockerfile* you will generate image of [ADCH++](https://adchpp.sourceforge.io/), a hub software for the ADC network that use [ADC protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Direct_Connect).

This image use a fork of the [original code of ADCH++](https://sourceforge.net/projects/adchpp/files/Releases/). This forked code is [hosted here, on github.com](https://github.com/adricu/adchpp), but I don't know if the maintainers are the same of the original code. Anyway, this is the only code I have be able compile, because I have try with the original using different methods but I don't get any useful binary.

### How to run a container
ADCH++ needs some configuration files to be able to run. The best way to run a container of this image is to bind a folder and put there the configuration files. These files could be given by us or be generated by the container with the default settings. For example if we bind a empty folder to the the container, it will generate needed files with the default setting. But if we bind a folder with a previous generated settings it will use this files.

The default TCP/UDP port that use ADCH++  is 2780 but you can change it on **adchpp.xml** file. Also you can generate some certificates with *OpenSSL* and use a secure connection, up to you.

*Docker run* command:
```bash
docker run -d --name "CONTAINER_NAME" -v "/FOLDER/TO/BIND/":"/data":"rw" -p 2780:2780/tcp -p 2780:2780/udp  "GENERATED_IMAGE"
```
### Administrator account
By default you don't have to be registered on the hub to get in, but a administrator account is needed to manage it. The accounts are stored on *users.txt* file. IF the file doesn't exist when the container start, it will generate the file with a random password for the administrator. The administrator username is *HubAdmin* and the generated password will be displayed on the container logs and the *users.txt* file  in plain text.

### Chat Commands
There are helpful commands on the chat that you can use to interact with the hub. Some will be available depending the user level you have. For example a normal user will get a small count of commands to get information from the Hub. But administrator can change any parameter you can find on the configuration files using this chat commands.

The commands starts with the **+** character. For example if you type **+help** you will get info of available commands for you on the chat. To get more info about a specific command you can type **+help +COMMAND** and the chat will return you with the explanation of this command.

### ADCH++ Configuration files:

The behavior of *ADCH++* can be configured using the many configuration files that available. For example:

###### adchpp.xml
Here you can define the TCP/UDP port where will be listening, set the file and the folder to save de logs and many more parameters.

###### settings.txt
You can set the maximum users that can be connected, name and description of the Hub etc.

###### motd.txt
As the file name said, here you can type the *Message Of The Day*. This will be displayed on the chat when the user getinto the Hub. The perfect place to give a welcome and explain the main rules of the Hub.

There are many other files to setup a lot of parameters, but I can't explain it all of them here. You can get more information about it on the [official documentation](https://adchpp.sourceforge.io/user_guide/expert_guide.html).
